Restructure CI/CD docs (#2036)
astronomer/docs: astro/ci-cd-templates/template-overview.md

---
sidebar_label: Template overview
title: Astro Cloud IDE
id: template-overview

> description: Use pre-built templates to get started with automating code Deploys 

Reviewer: We missed a wrong title here

This is equivalent to the following shell script: 

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"
export DAG_FOLDER="<path to dag folder ie. dags/>"
# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
# Determine if only DAG files have changes
files=$(git diff --name-only HEAD^..HEAD)
dags_only=1
for file in $files; do
  if [[ $file != "$DAG_FOLDER"* ]]; then
    echo "$file is not a dag, triggering a full image build"
    dags_only=0
    break
  fi
done
# If only DAGs changed deploy only the DAGs in your 'dags' folder to your Deployment
if [ $dags_only == 1 ]
then
    astro deploy --dags
fi
# If any other files changed build your Astro project into a Docker image, push the image to your Deployment, and then push and DAG changes
if [ $dags_only == 0 ]
then
    astro deploy
fi
```

### Preview Deployment templates

> _Preview Deployments_ are Deployments which are automatically created and deleted when you create a feature branch from your main Astro project branch. The Preview Deployment has the same configuration as the base Deployment, but it runs the code from your feature branch. When you merge or delete the branch, the preview Deployment is automatically deleted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Preview Deployments_ are Deployments that correspond to a temporary feature branch in your Git repository. They are automatically created when the branch is created and deleted when the branch is deleted. You can use Preview Deployments to quickly test a particular set of DAGs and avoid paying for the infrastructure cost of the Deployment when you promote your DAG code to a permanent base Deployment. The Preview Deployment has the same configuration as the base Deployment.
```

To implement this feature, you need four separate CI/CD actions to complete the following actions

- Create the preview Deployment when you create a new branch.
- Deploy code changes to Astro when you make updates in the branch.
- Delete the preview Deployment when you delete the branch. 

> - Deploy your changes to your base Deployment after you merge your changes into your main branch. 

Reviewer: Consistency with capital `p` preview or not? (I _think_ let's not but we can discuss)

> On GitHub, the Astronomer-maintained [Deploy preview action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action/tree/deployment-preview#deployment-preview-templates) includes sub-actions for each of these steps. These sub-actions are equivalent to the following four shell scripts: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use GitHub Actions, Astronomer maintains a [GitHub action for Deployment previews](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action/tree/deployment-preview#deployment-preview-templates) in the GitHub Marketplace that includes sub-actions for each of these steps.

These sub-actions are equivalent to the four shell scripts in the topics below.
```

---
sidebar_label: Template overview
title: Astro Cloud IDE
id: template-overview
description: Use pre-built templates to get started with automating code Deploys 
---

Use the Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate code deployment to Astro with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI. This document contains information about each general template type, including how each template is implemented.

To decide which template is right for you and to learn more about CI/CD use cases, see [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).

## Prerequisites

- A deploy strategy for your CI/CD pipeline. See [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).
- A [Deployment API key ID and secret](api-keys.md).
- A CI/CD management tool, such as [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions).

> - An [Astro project](create-project.md) that is hosted in a place that your CI/CD tool can access.

Author: I think we've both missed the most important part of this prerequisite, which is that all of these projects must be hosted in Git repositories. Some CI/CD tools are only compatible with specific repo platforms (CodeBuild comes to mind), so I think that's where the specifics come in.

> - An [Astro project](create-project.md) that is hosted in a place that your CI/CD tool can access.

Author: Might just be better to break out prerequisites in each product-based doc, thoughts?

This is equivalent to the following shell script: 

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"
export DAG_FOLDER="<path to dag folder ie. dags/>"
# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
# Determine if only DAG files have changes
files=$(git diff --name-only HEAD^..HEAD)
dags_only=1
for file in $files; do
  if [[ $file != "$DAG_FOLDER"* ]]; then
    echo "$file is not a dag, triggering a full image build"
    dags_only=0
    break
  fi
done
# If only DAGs changed deploy only the DAGs in your 'dags' folder to your Deployment
if [ $dags_only == 1 ]
then
    astro deploy --dags
fi
# If any other files changed build your Astro project into a Docker image, push the image to your Deployment, and then push and DAG changes
if [ $dags_only == 0 ]
then
    astro deploy
fi
```

> 

Author: "DAG-only" applies only to the deployment process. The end result is the same for both image pushes and DAG pushes, which is that you have a running Airflow environment in Docker containers on Astro. There's some low level implementation details for how we actually get DAGs from a DAG-only deploy to that Docker image, but all code will run in a Docker image regardless. 

What makes DAG-based pipeliness even more complicated is that you will still build and push an image if you update any project files, such as `requirements.txt`.

I think we've fully ended `venv` support along with our legacy image (Astronomer Certified). Docker is our main mode for doing anything based on Astro Runtime at the moment, with the exception that you can use Runtime with [Podman](https://podman-desktop.io/) locally.
